Let's work on trying to
finish out this journal page.
We're getting as close as we can so
we can actually create a journal and
start to see those journals fold in.
Cuz we're gonna run into, I wouldn't say
issue, but we're gonna run into a business
decision that we're gonna have to make
when it comes to getting this data.
And I can't wait to talk about it.
Or at least showing the data, mostly
because we're getting data server side on
this journal page, but at some point
we're gonna have to create something.
And yes, with server actions you
can create things on the server.
If you've seen the intro Next.js,
I've talked about server actions.
You also heard me say that I don't
like to do that when a UI is waiting.
So I probably won't use server actions for
that, so I'll do it on the client.
So if I'm doing that on the client
as I'm creating something,
but all the entries are being fetched
on the server, how does the server know
that it needs to go refetch all the
entries that was created on the client?
So there's a miscommunication there.
So solving that is a really good
exercise in what Next.js is capable of.
But we'll get to that.
What we'll do now is let's just create
some components for the entries we don't
have and a component to create a new
entry and we'll go from there.
So let's do that.
First things first is, let's go to
where we'll make some components.
So what I like to do is to make
a components folder on the root, so
I'll say components, like so.
And then inside of here,
I'll make a EntryCard.tsx,
and then I'll say NewEntryCard.tsx.
So for the entry card, well,
let's just say EntryCard,
it's gonna take in an entry, like so.
Gonna be exported.
And then for now we'll just show the IDs.
We'll make it look good in a minute.
Let's just say entry.id, super simple.
And let me rename this so
I spell it right, EntryCard.
And then for the new entry card,
it's very similar.
Actually, that's the whole point, it's
supposed to look similar, it's jus for
a new card.
This won't take an entry cuz
it's creating a new one.
And instead we'll just say,
new entry, like that.
I always like to make my
components just show a div,
some hello world thing, render them,
and then go back and make them.
That way I can actually see them on
the screen when I'm making them.
It's very rare that I'll
go make a component and
just flesh it out completely
before I even render it somewhere.
Unless I know exactly what I'm doing or
I copied and pasted something,
it's very rare that I'll do that.
Because I need to build it visually
because It's a UI component,
I need to see it.
So very rare.
So I always do this back and forth motion
of getting them, just make it render
something, go render it, and
then come back and make it look good.
Because a lot of the time in CSS,
it's just me opening the browser,
playing around with the CSS in the browser
to see what styles I need, and
then going back and
adding those classes to the component.
It's a lot easier to design in the browser
with the the dev tools than it is
to go in here and add the stuff.
Although Next.js and Tailwind makes it
really quick, you just hit save and
it refreshes immediately.
But sometimes, lmaybe the state,
maybe the thing that you're designing
is hidden behind a few clicks.
And then this thing's got to happen, and
this thing's got to happen, it's a modal.
So having to do that,
saving it and open it back up and
do this stuff is a little annoying.
It's a lot easier just to open
the browser sometimes and
just go play with the CSS there and then
figure out what you got to do in the code.
Okay, so we have those components.
Now we're gonna go back
to our journal page, and
we're gonna just gonna bring those in.
So first thing I wanna do though is,
I wanna make a grid.
So I'm gonna make a grid here.
I'm gonna call this grid.
And I'm gonna say grid-cols.
I want this to be three columns, so
grid-cols-3, and
then I want them to have a gap of
4 which is about 16 pixels.
So the first thing in the grid is
always going to be the new entry card.
It's always gonna be at the top.
And then everything after that
are just gonna be the entries.
So then I can just say,
entries like this and
.map, get myself an entry, and
then just render out a EntryCard,
And parse in the entry as a prop.
And if you really just hate
that red squigly, go ahead and
give it a key of entry.id.
Cool.
I also prefer to do layout first before I
do UI design because I feel like layout
affects the UI design when
you don't have a design.
Obviously, if you're at work and
you already have a design,
this doesn't matter.
But if I'm designing,
I'm just like, I mean, actually,
I'll still probably do
the layout first anyway.
Because it's a lot easier to do
the broad strokes than do the details,
than having to do the details, bring it
into the layout, just to find out, wait,
well, that's not gonna work.
So I feel like you shouldn't
sacrifice good layout for a design,
the layout should come first, and
then the details should come after it.
That's come from somebody that
knows nothing about design, so
don't listen to me.
All right.
Cool, so we're really not gonna
see anything here, right,
cuz we don't have anything.
But let's start to make
it look a little better.
So I want these to kind of look like cards
almost, so that's what we're gonna do.
But the first thing that's truly
bothering me is the fact that there's
no padding on this.
I just can't take it, so
I'm gonna put a padding of 10 on all this.
There we go, so much better.
And actually what I wanna do,
I wanna put a title on this page.
So I'm gonna wrap this div in
another div Like this.
That way I can put an H2
here that says turn or
entries or journal.
Something like that, give it a class name.
Let's try 3xl for the texts.
Let's do a margin bottom of 8,
see what that looks like.
Yeah, there we go.
But now I gotta bring that
padding up to the root diff.
There we go.
So we get something like that.
>> Can I see your top level imports-
>> Absolutely.
>> For the two components we just made?
>> Yep.
So I've used at which will give me root
slash components slash the name.
>> I tried to destructure
them both in one.
>> Yeah, so if you try to destructure
them, that would be a named export.
So some people do that as a,
there's really no wrong or right way.
The only thing you have to do
is you can't do that for pages.
For pages,
anything that's a special file in Next.js
as a component has to be a default export.
Otherwise, Next.js doesn't know
what the name of the export is, so
it can't import it.
And it's not gonna do some static
analysis like TypeScript is gonna do and
read your files to get
the names of the exports.
So it just has the default exports.
Components, you can do
whatever the hell you want.
These aren't special files.
You just got to make sure you import
them the way that you exported them.
But pages and layouts and templates and
things like that that are specially
named have to have the specific exports.
Okay, let's work on this card here.
So I already have a bunch.
And this is where I said, you don't
remember all the CSS, so I'm actually just
going to go see all the CSS I already
made for this, cuz it's a lot and
there's no way in hell I'm gonna remember
all that or try to do it again, so,
Here we go, actually, wait.
There we go.
So it actually kind of looks like this.
Worry about the on-click for now.
I mean, I guess it's not that
hard now that I'm looking at it.
It just puts a cursor pointer on it,
overflow hidden, rounded the corners,
make the background white,
adds a shadow, and then some padding, so
I guess it's not too bad, But to copy
that, this is what the repo is for.
It's in the new entry TSX
file if you wanna copy that.
You also don't need to make this
look like exactly what I have.
The style of this is not gonna
affect the functionality, so.
Okay, and then if you go check this out,
just to verify it's there.
Now what's bothering me is that it's
a white card on a white background and
I can't stand it, so I'm gonna fix that.
Inside of our page, I'm just going to
give this a background of zinc dash
Let's start with 500, and
then add some opacity,
modifier of 50 ,and let's just
see what that looks like.
Nope, let's try 10.
Absolutely not, let's lower that to 400.
Much better, much better.
Okay, and
then we say give this a height of full.
Nope, that still didn't work.
It doesn't like that.
And that's because this doesn't
have a height of full on it.
I'm not doing all that.
It's just gonna look like that for now.
I gotta put a height full on this,
and I gotta put a height full on this,
and then it'll be good.
That's just so much work.
I guess I'll do it now
that I mentioned it.
[LAUGH] Let's just do it.
Height full on the thing in the template,
and
then We'll put one here too.
We'll probably get some scroll too, I bet.
A little bit of scroll, yeah.
So to fix the scroll what you would
have to do is just do some math, right?
So you have to come here and say height is
going to be calc 100 view height minus.
What did I put before the thing, 60.
Or, I'm sorry, you want to do that here.
You would still want
a high fall on this and
then you would say, this has a height of
100 View Height, or
sorry, calc(100vh-60px).
The reason we do that is because 100
View Height is the entire screen,
but minus 60 pixels because we have
a header up top that's 60 pixels.
And there's no margin between them,
so we just calculate that.
And that's why I chose to do
things absolutely positioned,
cuz I could just do math and do stuff.
But if you were gonna make this
relative or mobile responsive,
you probably couldn't get away with this
unless you had some crazy media queries.
So there we go, no more scroll.
Everything's exactly the height and
width that it needs to be.
Okay, so we got this new entry.
It literally does nothing
when we click on it.
Let's change that.